[WHOOSH]
[SHIMMERING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: We're here
with John Lear today.
We're going to be talking
about the secret underground
waterways.
Hi, John.
>>JOHN LEAR: How
you doing, Emery?
>>EMERY: Good to see you again.
>>LEAR: Nice to see you.
>>EMERY: Man, this is
such an interesting topic.
You know, my father
was in the Navy.
And on his deathbed told me
a lot of interesting things.
And then, you know,
working after the military
with some other projects, using
underground backscattered radar
technology, low
volumetric imaging,
we found a lot of
amazing things.
We were looking for
something else actually,
but we got to see this
underground basically aquifers,
and tunnels large enough
to have submarines.
It's like a tunneling system.
>>LEAR: Yep.
>>EMERY: And when I saw
your map here in the office,
I was just blown away.
Because I used to live right
here in Topanga, in Malibu.
And we would do a lot of
underwater photography
and trips down there.
But it's a lot deeper than that.
And I met a few agents down
there that verified this.
And I would love for you to
explain your take on this,
and where it starts, and
how it all got started.
And also, when was the first
time you heard about it?
>>LEAR: The seven Western states
of the United States actually
sit on a plate, which
rests on the Pacific Ocean.
The first time I
heard about it was
Branton, the Branton documents.
Many years ago,
maybe 30 years ago,
I read them, and talked
about the disappearance
of the Thresher.
Now, the Thresher was one
of the very first Navy
nuclear submarines.
It disappeared.
And the Navy has done
every possible thing
to make us believe that it blew
up or disintegrated somehow
in the Azores.
Actually, it was lost
in the Pacific Ocean
under California or Nevada.
What they had done is
they'd found the entrance.
In Monterey Bay
there's a canyon that's
deep enough that they
can take a nuke sub,
go under, and enter the Pacific
Ocean that's under those seven
Western states.
And they can go
anywhere they want.
And all that has to
happen on the surface,
they dig down whatever the
length of the plate is.
In the case of Hawthorne
it's 3,400 feet.
Sandpoint, it's a little more.
Lake Tahoe.
You remember when Jacques
Cousteau did the deep dive
at Lake Tahoe?
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>LEAR: And when he came up
they said, what'd you see?
He said, I can't tell you.
The public doesn't need
to know about that.
So he knew in those days.
>>EMERY: It was connected.
>>LEAR: Branton talked
about the Thresher
was actually lost under
either California or Nevada.
And one of the crew member's
wife was communicating.
>>EMERY: Through telepathy?
>>LEAR: Psychically.
Yeah.
>>EMERY: Yeah.
>>LEAR: Saying, we're alive.
But we don't know where we
are, and we can't get out.
And that was Branton's story.
That was the first
time I heard about--
>>EMERY: What year was that?
>>LEAR: Well, that had to be
in the late '70s or early '80s.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>LEAR: OK.
Then when my folks moved
up to Reno in 1970,
I would drive from
Las Vegas up there.
And halfway between is this
little town called Hawthorne.
There's a lake, Walker Lake.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>LEAR: It's 100 feet
deep, 15 miles long.
No big deal.
But when you drive into
Hawthorne from either end,
there's a big blue sign.
>>EMERY: I love that sign.
>>LEAR: That says US Navy
Undersea Warfare Center.
And it used to say
training center,
but they changed it to center.
>>EMERY: In the
middle of a desert.
>>LEAR: How could that be?
You have a deep lake submarine?
No way.
And I tossed that around for
years, and he had been flying--
>>EMERY: Yeah.
We flew over this many times.
>>LEAR: Jumped to
be in the cockpit
with the different airlines
going over this place.
Somebody would say, yeah,
there's a submarine base there.
And never figured
it out until I had
a good contact in Las Vegas.
He ran a printing shop.
Just a small printing shop.
And he used to give me
so much information,
because the guys that
would come in there,
all parts of the industry.
And one was a Navy guy
that worked in Hawthorne.
And they needed some printing.
And when they came
in, he just made
the comment, hey, is
what John Lear says,
there's a submarine
base under Hawthorne?
And the guy went like that.
>>EMERY: I can't believe--
Wow.
>>LEAR: So that--
he tipped us off.
And then one thing
led to another.
And we found out, yes.
They built an elevator
that goes down.
And the reason they did
was because the firm that
makes all the highly
classified weaponage for the US
nuclear subs is in
that mountain just
to the Northwest of Hawthorne.
And they used to have to
ship it by truck, either up
to Reno, and up to
Alameda in San Francisco,
over through Las Vegas
down to San Diego.
But when they found
out that submarines
could access and actually go
under Nevada and California,
they dug a large hole
there, 3,400 feet
deep to the Pacific Ocean.
And they have a huge
underground base.
And all they have to
do is take this weapon
and put it on the elevator,
and send it down there.
>>EMERY: Send it
down and they got it.
>>LEAR: And the sub goes
out the Monterey Bay.
>>EMERY: John, you
and I know this,
but how do we actually
explain how the plates--
they're not floating.
But they are thousands of
feet above the next level.
This is very deep water
under California and Nevada.
And how do they make
these bases in Nevada?
>>LEAR: Actually, it does float.
The seven Western states
are on a geological plate
that covers these states.
And this plate floats
on the Pacific Ocean.
So all they need is the
entrance through a canyon that's
deep enough in Monterey Bay that
lets them access the Pacific
Ocean.
>>EMERY: Oh, I see.
>>LEAR: And they can
go anywhere they want
on these seven Western states.
They can go to Sandpoint.
They can go to Lake Tahoe.
They can go to China
Lake, where they've
seen the nuke submarines there
in the middle of the desert.
Ha!
And Groom Lake I'm
sure has an access.
And certainly,
Sandia and Tonopah.
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>LEAR: But there's other places
in those seven Western states
where people see a sign that
says US Naval Undersea Center.
>>EMERY: Right.
You talked about
drilling this 3,500 foot
entranceway for them, topsoil
all the way at the bottom.
And I'm familiar with underwater
facilities in the Atlantic
and Pacific Oceans.
Do they have that there as well?
Or is it just the sub comes up.
It vacuums out like in space
when we're transferring things?
Or is it actually a
huge center down there
that people are working at, and
the sub pulls in and comes up.
>>LEAR: The sub doesn't come up.
It sits right at where
the Pacific Ocean has
its level at zero altitude.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>LEAR: And I mean,
I guess they've
been digging tunnels
that wide for years,
since the early '50s.
So to dig one at
Hawthorne was light duty.
You know, probably took
them a couple of days
and they're at 3,400 feet.
>>EMERY: Right.
Right.
I'm familiar with the way
they used to drill down there
and make these tunnels.
Are you familiar with
this one now that
melts the granite and the rock,
and it looks like a lava tube
now?
And you can basically
get a jumbo 747 down it.
That's how big
these highways are.
I want to give a
spectrum to everyone.
Number one, like what's
the largest nuke sub
that you're aware of in feet?
>>LEAR: The new block tube,
Virginia class, the largest one
that I'm aware of.
>>EMERY: And how
many meters is that?
>>LEAR: You know,
I think it's, what?
600 feet?
>>EMERY: Yes.
What's the name
of that submarine?
>>LEAR: Virginia-class Block II.
>>EMERY: We're talking about
massive submarines going
under the continental
shelf here.
>>LEAR: If you're wondering
how do they get in there,
they access it by the canyons.
Now, you could see
on Monterey Bay.
Pull up Google Earth.
>>EMERY: Yeah.
Famous photo.
Right?
>>LEAR: Go down.
And you can see this
huge canyon just goes
to the coastline at
Monterey Bay and stops.
Well, it doesn't stop.
It goes all the way through.
And that's what
they can do is get
on the bottom of this
canyon and go access
the Pacific Ocean that lies
under these Western states.
>>EMERY: Is that just a
natural geological formation?
Or have they actually done more
to clear those areas to get
to these areas?
>>LEAR: It's a
natural formation,
just like the one at Malibu.
Now, there's good pictures on
the web of that entrance there.
>>EMERY: Yeah.
I've seen them.
>>LEAR: And those are
natural formations.
Now, when I heard the
Branton story of the Thresher
that was lost, I started looking
at the two nuclear submarines
that the US Navy lost.
And the one was the Tresher.
And the other was, I'm
thinking, not SkipJack,
but a name like that.
And the Navy has gone
to unbelievable effort
to hide where those nuclear
submarines disappeared.
One was supposedly
at the Azores.
in the Pacific.
And I have talked to some of
the guys in the Pentagon Navy.
And they come up with all these
reasons how I could be wrong,
but the fact is both
those submarines
were lost in the Pacific
Ocean under one or more,
either Nevada or California.
Now, I'll tell you
the extent that they
went to to pretend that the
Tresher was lost at the Azores.
The discoverer of the Titanic--
what really happened is Robert
Ballard went to the US Navy
and asked for some equipment
to help him find the Titanic.
The Titanic was found three
years prior by the Navy.
And they did all
the investigation
they needed to do before they
told anybody about the Titanic.
And they let Ballard
be that discoverer.
And the Navy had already
been there three years.
The agreement that the
Navy made with Ballard
is that he go to the
Azores and take pictures
of the sunken Thresher
submarine and what
was left of the debris of
the nuclear reactor, which
didn't exist at
all, but which he
did, and filmed
whatever was there
that they called the Thresher.
And in return for that, they
told him where the Titanic was.
And he discovered it.
[LAUGHING]
>>EMERY: Oh, it always
works like that.
Always someone on
someone's shoulders.
>>LEAR: And then they did
the same thing in the Pacific
with the one they lost there.
But both of those submarines
were lost somewhere
under California or Nevada.
And now you say, well, how
do you know for sure, John?
I had a friend that was
in the Navy stationed
in San Francisco.
And one day he was excavating
wherever he worked.
And that was where they
made maps of all the places
around the world.
And they happened to
have a map of California.
And there was a line from
Monterey Bay to Hawthorne.
And that was the route that
the submarines used there.
And at first I thought
it was a tunnel.
No.
It's not a tunnel.
It's just a whole ocean.
>>EMERY: Ocean.
>>LEAR: That just
happened to be the routes
that they used from the entrance
at Monterey Bay to Hawthorne.
>>EMERY: I can't believe they
couldn't find this submarine
because of the
technology we have today,
and also it's like
the ELTs we have
on the back of our aircraft.
You know?
>>LEAR: Right.
Right.
>>EMERY: They have
the same-- similar.
It's actually a
different frequency.
And it's harmonics
that I'm aware of that
if there was something
going on bad that you
could pick this
signal up anywhere
in any ocean around the world.
>>LEAR: Remember, Emery,
we're talking 45 years ago.
We didn't have that
technology then.
>>EMERY: Oh, OK.
>>LEAR: Now, we could have it.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>LEAR: But, of course,
the people are dead.
The sailors are dead.
And we probably found it now.
But you and I aren't
going to know about it.
>>EMERY: How are they
covering up these entrances?
And are they, of
course, monitored?
And is there someone
always down there?
>>LEAR: No.
But it's just outside Fort Ord.
And there's always
something there
because there is a gigantic
UFO base outside of Fort Ord.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>LEAR: So they don't
have to guard it
because nobody would be there.
Nobody would have
their own submarine.
>>EMERY: A submarine
to go that deep.
>>LEAR: To check it out.
>>EMERY: Well, tell
us about Hawthorne.
We got the map here.
Let's go over the
entrances, where they are,
and where they
lead to Hawthorne.
>>LEAR: OK.
This is the Monterey Bay
entrance at Moss Landing.
And it's the Elkhorn
Slough that you
can look under when
you go on Google Earth,
and look at that canyon.
>>EMERY: Yeah.
That angle.
Right.
>>LEAR: This is the Malibu one.
That's also on the net.
Great pictures.
>>EMERY: That's a great
picture that they took of that.
And they still haven't
covered it up, I don't think.
>>LEAR: No.
You don't have to cover up
something that nobody believes.
So this is Hawthorne.
And that's the route that
they take direct to Hawthorne.
And that's where they get
all their super weapon stuff.
This is Lake Tahoe.
And that's Pyramid Lake.
>>EMERY: Pyramid Lake.
>>LEAR: There's
something at Winnemucca.
There's always been
And I don't know what it is.
But there's always been some
kind of classified facility
there.
This one is Lake Mead.
Nellis used to be called
the Navy Lake Mead Station.
>>EMERY: Really?
>>LEAR: Yeah.
And they took that Lake
Mead Station out of there
for some reason.
But the underground, or
the undersea Pacific Ocean
stretched all the
way to Lake Mead.
And there is certainly access.
There was access then.
There's probably access now
at Nellis Air Force Base.
>>EMERY: Well, always
something going on there.
>>LEAR: Yeah.
Yeah.
Always.
>>EMERY: And what's
up here at Sandpoint?
>>LEAR: That's Sandpoint.
That's the Navy very
highly classified research.
And that's where they
have the one quarter scale
submarines there, checking
all kinds of stuff.
There's all these
stories about that.
But what they don't say is the
actual nuke subs themselves
can actually go there.
And that's because it overlies
the Pacific Ocean, just
like all the seven states.
Now, we heard stories that
there were nuclear submarines
in St. Louis, Missouri.
And a guy had been
taken by his father
to where he worked and shown
under wherever it was in St.
Louis, went down these stairs.
And there is a
nuclear submarine.
So how did it get there?
It turns out they sailed
up the Mississippi.
And when I posted this
on my Facebook page,
somebody came and said,
well, that explains
why they're always
dredging outside St. Louis.
Because anything that
uses the Mississippi
doesn't have that
much of a draft.
You know, a couple feet.
Why would they dredge?
And they dredge so that the
submarines can then come up.
>>EMERY: I wonder why St. Louis.
What's in--
>>LEAR: It's because
the company that
made the electronics that
they were researching
on this nuclear sub
was located there.
And it'd be too complicated to
move that somewhere that was
easily accessible.
It'd be easier just to have
the nuclear sub sail up
the Mississippi and
pull into St. Louis.
Now, the center of all the
Navy stuff is in Memphis.
And I'm sure that has a huge
submarine facility there.
>>EMERY: I was told
that there is a way
to get from the Pacific to
the Atlantic with a sub, not
the big ones, but a
little bit smaller.
Do you know anything about that?
>>LEAR: No.
But I believe that story.
>>EMERY: Yeah.
I believe it too.
I don't have anything
to back it up.
But I've heard it
from too many people.
And just by seeing a lot of
the underground facilities
through this radar
technology that it seems
it could actually
be very possible.
>>LEAR: Absolutely.
>>EMERY: John, why
do we go inland?
>>LEAR: Because
the manufacturing
facility was already
there at Hawthorne.
It was inside the mountain.
So all the stuff, all
the weapons and stuff
were shipped out either
up to Reno, and out
to Alameda and San Francisco,
or south through Las Vegas
to San Diego.
But when they found out that
the Pacific underlied Hawthorne,
and all they had to do
was move an elevator,
why would they move the
entire facility hidden
in the mountains
to the coast just
to facilitate the transport
of these facilities?
They didn't have to.
They just had to dig an elevator
and run all the stuff down
to the base.
>>EMERY: It's probably a lot
safer too than having a Naval
base full of subs in broad
daylight, sitting there,
and being tracked by our--
>>LEAR: Yeah.
You got that right.
>>EMERY: --friends and foes.
I think it's also
a safety factor.
>>LEAR: China Lake has obviously
been a very secret Navy
facility.
And it's the Navy's Area 51.
And there's a lot
that goes on there.
So it would just be
natural that they'd
want to access it with
a submarine, which
has been seen there.
It's just to the West of
Edwards Air Force Base.
It's always been low key.
Nobody thinks much
about China Lake,
because everything
is underground.
And the people that
work there, they're
issued bicycles to go to these
massive underground facilities.
It's the only way to
get around under there.
>>EMERY: I've heard
about these things.
>>LEAR: And there's
all kinds of things
that go on there at China Lake.
I haven't heard that
much about them.
I had a very good friend that
worked there for many years.
And he didn't tell me
much, unfortunately.
But that is the Area
51 for the Navy.
>>EMERY: Are they
developing craft there?
>>LEAR: Probably.
Emery, one of the things
that Richard Hoagland told
us about was the lie is
different at every level.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>LEAR: So every
level of a clearance,
the lie is different.
>>EMERY: Yes.
You get a little bit more and
more of the truth each time.
>>LEAR: Yeah.
Other places, for
instance, Lake Tahoe,
the reason they access
that is SEAL teams
could go up there
without anybody
seeing where they were, and
disappear for a couple weeks.
I had a friend who was the
original member of SEAL Team
Six, Scotty Lyons.
He died many years ago.
And he didn't tell me much.
But one of the
things he told me is
when they went up to Lake Tahoe
they were reporting for duty.
And they would go down the
elevator into the Pacific
Ocean, and then go
out for somewhere
when people just thought
they were going up
to Tahoe for a meeting.
>>EMERY: Oh.
>>LEAR: And so there's
many reasons why
the Navy wants access to under
the seven western states,
and possibly more.
For instance, Sandpoint.
Idaho is where they have their
top secret research facility.
And the public is told that
they use that lake there.
And they just use 25% models.
But they don't.
They use the real thing.
And they access it with the
access to the Pacific Ocean.
They could just
sail the submarines
and go up the lake bed.
Sandpoint, the
lake there is known
to be one of the deepest
in the United States.
>>EMERY: John, what is Nellis
Air Force Base, as far as being
involved with all this?
>>LEAR: Well, I can tell you
that Nellis Air Force Base will
be the last Air
Force facility that
will ever be decommissioned.
But there is so much
going on at Nellis
that we don't know about.
One thing is for
years part of Nellis
was the Lake Mead
Naval Air Station.
>>EMERY: It seems like a joint
effort actually of many Air
Force, Marines, Navy.
They're all there.
>>LEAR: But the Navy wanted
to dissociate themselves
with Nellis because of the
submarine access to Nellis.
>>EMERY: That makes sense.
>>LEAR: So they got rid of
that Lake Mead Naval Air
Station to disassociate
themselves with Nellis.
But there's a lot of
Navy activity there.
>>EMERY: Mhm.
I've been to
Nellis, as you know.
But I was not there
under classified orders.
I was just picking some things
up to get back to Kirkland.
And I did meet with
some people there.
And there is a large
facility below Nellis.
>>LEAR: Massive.
>>EMERY: That stretches miles
and miles, they told me.
>>LEAR: Right.
And highways up to Groom Lake.
But in addition to these
massive facilities underground,
they have massive facilities.
This mountain range behind here
is called Friendship Mountain.
That's full of labs.
>>EMERY: Right.
I was telling my team
that on the way up.
Yes.
>>LEAR: There was a
secret runway at Nellis
that they use only
once in a while.
And the only reason I
know is I had guys that
worked out on the flight line.
And they said that
occasionally they
would uncover this
secret runway,
because it was shorter
than a normal runway.
And they were doing
tactical exercises
with the F-16 and the
the F-15 that they
had to land on these
shorter runways.
And the one guy said--
I said, what was the name?
He said, all I heard was we're
going out to flight line.
So I don't know what
the real name of it is.
But if you look at
Google pictures,
I can see about where
it is, but absolutely
no trace that it's there.
And also, I had a friend that
worked for a large paving
company in Las Vegas
that paved the taxiways.
>>EMERY: Now, that's a special
contractor right there.
>>LEAR: Right.
>>EMERY: Yep.
Could you explain to me
the D DOT D material?
And how it's made, where it's
made, and besides the subs,
are they using it in any other
aerospace technology or weapon
technology?
>>LEAR: Emery, I got my
information from a Navy guy.
They told me about it.
He said it had to
be made in zero G.
And I said, you mean
in space, in orbit?
And they said, yeah.
They have foundaries that orbit.
And that fit in what we
know about the US Navy Space
Command.
They have many, many things in
orbit, including direct energy
weapons and foundaries,
and command centers
of all type, all of it launched
out of Kwajalein Island.
And what it does, it's lighter
than titanium, and stronger.
And with a small
electrical charge,
it keeps the water five to seven
centimeters away from the hull.
So any hull based craft,
we know that the equation
is 1.34 times the square
root of the waterline, which
limits any craft, aircraft
carrier to submarines,
to about 45 knots.
But now with this new D DOT D
they've had for about 10 years,
with no drag, they
can go over 100 knots.
And you talk about the Gerald
Ford recently launched,
a massive aircraft
carrier doing 100 knots.
>>EMERY: Incredibly fast.
Right.
>>LEAR: Doing 100 knots.
It's amazing.
>>EMERY: It's incredible.
>>LEAR: And the
question comes up, well,
don't the sailors know that?
Well, of course, the
sailors are kept below decks
while they're transporting.
And when they get to
somewhere 10 times
faster than they normally
would, a sailor's
not going to go to
his commanding officer
and say, hey, what's
going on here?
How come we're here
six times faster?
That would be the way to
get eliminated real easy.
>>EMERY: Terminated.
Court martialled.
Done.
>>LEAR: The same thing with the
submarine that shot down TWA
Flight--
I forget what it was.
811 or what it was
over Long Island.
What they were doing
was tracking a drone.
And for some reason,
the tracking system
lost the track for
like a millisecond.
And when it reacquired the
track, it reacquired the 747
and blew it out of the sky.
Now, there was no
explosive on it.
But it went through the top
of the 747 and split it.
And all the witnesses said,
no, we saw something coming up.
>>EMERY: Right.
Coming up.
>>LEAR: And they
said, no, you just
saw this stuff coming down.
They had the SEAL teams
on site in 30 minutes
to get everything possible
that could have connected
the Navy with that incident.
>>EMERY: Yeah.
>>LEAR: And what they
did with everybody
that was on that submarine,
they knew they shot it down.
They transferred every
single one of the 140 people
all to different
stations so they
couldn't talk among themselves.
So they know how
to keep a secret.
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>LEAR: And it
doesn't depend on--
a Navy person is not
going to come out
and say, oh, you'll
never believe
what I saw the other day.
[LAUGHS]
>>EMERY: John, do
you think there's
a way through your father's
anti-gravitic inventions
and engineering that this could
be applied to a submarine?
>>LEAR: It probably could.
I don't know the exact
one that they used.
But like I say, there's
been many different kinds
of anti-grav that
have been developed.
One 15 years ago I know
had to do with mercury.
Because you'll
remember 15 years ago
they banned all
mercury thermometers
for saying it was too dangerous.
It wasn't dangerous.
They needed the mercury.
And they didn't want it
used up with thermometers.
So they had something at
that time that used mercury.
Whatever they've developed
can be used for both airplanes
and ships, boats, submarines.
If the D DOT D can keep the
water five to seven centimeters
away from the hull
and reduce the drag,
then certainly the
same technology
could be used for airplanes.
Now, we definitely, at least
when Bob Lazar worked at S-4,
had mock 12 vehicles.
You'll hear that the
Aurora, they never made it.
It was just a budget program.
>>EMERY: Bunch of BS.
Yeah.
>>LEAR: They really
did have Aurora.
And it did fly at mock
12 at 250,000 feet.
He saw one of them
on the ramp there.
And everybody said, no, no.
That's not what it was.
But it was real.
And there have been several
advances more in technology.
I hear that we go mock 30 now.
>>EMERY: Yeah.
Some of the saucers that
I've seen that we reproduced,
they can go in the
water like submarines.
They can go anywhere.
>>LEAR: Exactly.
>>EMERY: And I
wouldn't be surprised
if submarines do have some sort
of anti-gravitic capabilities
for emergency situations.
But I think there's
a way to do it.
Do these underwater tunnels
go as far north as Canada
with the Pacific
Ocean, as we'll say,
how it's floating the
continent on this?
>>LEAR: You know, people
talk about tunnels.
They're not tunnels.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>LEAR: It's an ocean.
>>EMERY: It's an
ocean, full ocean.
>>LEAR: And yes.
Canada, United States.
It's not limited.
The ocean goes
under all of that.
It just depends on how far.
For all I know, the entire
North American plate
could be floating on
the Pacific Ocean.
>>EMERY: John, thanks again.
This was an amazing
instruction, again,
on these underwater facilities.
Cause it's not
talked about, ever.
>>LEAR: Right.
>>EMERY: And I think it'll be
a big eye opener for everyone.
>>LEAR: Right.
>>EMERY: So thanks
for being on the show.
>>LEAR: Thank you, Emery.
[THEME MUSIC]